okay
so we're going to tell you about this
book project and it's a book that has
already existed in a variety of forms um
it's called uprisings and
nika has
published versions of them how many
languages does it know in russian
so it's
russian
and
english and the polish edition supposed
to come it was translated but somehow
not yet okay so there's been versions of
it and it's always a little bit
different every time because it's a
history
of kind of participatory history of
uprisings and the sense of injustice and
occasions when injustice leads to a
that sense of injustice leads to some
kind of conflagration and transformative
action
transformative action which is either
successful or unsuccessful and we want
to do it historically
we talk about
the first labor strikes in ancient egypt
or the uh defection of the plebs in rome
but also stuff very much up to date
uh like black lives matter
black lives matter yes
um but also things you might not have
heard of um like the monstrations in in
russia
um and cosmic rebellion cosmic rebellion
yeah yeah imbalance against death
so so we wanted to you know sort of
create a catalogue and something like
that's never going to be comprehensive
it's somewhat of a
expression uh expressive
mix
but you know
2019 was really a year of uprisings they
were there's a lack of articulation but
there was an incredible level of
militants everywhere in the world and um
it was a big question whether after the
shock of the pandemic people were just
gonna be you know
too overwhelmed even think about picking
it up where they left off but well i
guess we got the answer to that now in
america
not so much um it looks like everything
is up for grabs and a project like this
is more appropriate than ever so what
this is what we were thinking we were
going to do you want to describe the
idea
[Music]
okay
um all right so the idea is that we
thought it'd be kind of fun as long as
we got this patreon page to do it as a
participatory thing how would we do that
i thought maybe the idea would be each
page would come up with an idea um
that we had to actually for
a possible publisher um we came up with
an idea for
um
chapters
and um
we didn't actually have a text for most
of them we have a few
but
what we thought we would do
is to
kind of talk about what we thought we
might put in that section there being to
have a little story and then an image on
face and pages because a large part of
these books was that nika got these
amazing political artists to um
there we go uh to
to do original work for it um but now
it's not uh but now we're
the visual concept is changing
so the idea is
not to invite artists because this is
more like an art catalog with
some
historical cases but now we decided to
do
little
essay in the
public art projects but a simulation of
the public art projects imaginary public
art project as they can be
uh
in memory of like a first egyptian
laser strike
it's a very clever idea actually i've
seen some of the images are really cool
yeah um but what we wanted you
uh especially was to like sort of focus
on on
what aspect should we follow through
right
um so
what we thought we would do would be i
would
start or hopefully nick and i would
start um
doing
kind of a presentation of what we
thought we might do the section as a
little video like this and then people
could respond either you know on twitter
or on the patreon page uh and get a
sense of where people would like us to
take it if there's something we're doing
which is definitely stupid and wrong um
imagery that two weeks should we have
last period three two
oh sure yes
um imagery um that might be appropriate
it's all right ideas we don't have to
take them right
but
that way it could be a potentially
participatory project and then we go and
actually design the page um so we
thought we'd do that you know one or two
at a time
and it will give us something to do
while we're still in semi long term so
and maybe we can start from one now so
we see how it goes because
i already did the
public imagery for the one of the cases
that definitely will be in the book we
welcome this i work with for a long time
but he also did a common
um
direct action with david and that was
about this xddr
divorce woman who was for 30 years
fighting for the pension rights they got
totally ripped off with reunification
yeah and they uh
specifically got ripped off because they
were divorced because during the time
when two germanys
united uh majority of the west german
woman's or actually uh
housewives and majority like 90 percent
of or more of the east german woman were
working
uh
yeah so
and the the difference between east and
west germany this is the thing that i
think is often not communicated so
people don't understand why this is such
a crime is all these women um
got screwed by the fact that in west
germany
uh your your husband's pension even if
you get divorced your husband's pension
part of it goes to you um
in east germany they didn't have that
but what they did have was they allowed
care work to count as part of your
pension
so that if you raise two children for
example you know that would count in um
and
these
you know so people could take time off
from work to so as to um
yeah but and that was allowed the
government actually recognized that as
real work you know on top of that uh
east germany was socialistic countries
so they did have a very very strong
social uh
safety so the pension wasn't as
important there are other things you
could do yeah and also you know if you
divorce you do have a free kindergarten
you have uh school such as free
everything is basically free so that's
all gone so they privatized everything
they they yeah yeah and on top of that
they didn't get half of the pension of
their husbands because they're supposed
to be this independent woman and so 30
years later when these people many of
them have lived below poverty rate is
still articles in the german newspapers
saying that oh you know you want it both
ways you want to to be not normal mean
like that divorce and you want to leave
be wealthy and like take taken care of
by the state you know as if you know
these these people have raised families
as single mothers and then got totally
screwed that's what actually happened
yeah and then last year it was a 30
years anniversary of
[Music]
many of them are extreme poverty yeah so
this was a uh like
anniversary of the fallen of berlin wall
and uh it was presented as a celebration
of freedom but in the same time in
germany it's a lot of real nazis uh uh
coming to paolo become a local um
in the east germany especially in the
areas which were devastated by
legislation like this which nobody
remembers i mean the u.n has said this
is a total injustice and demanded
germany senate straight and the german
government can't make us you know they
it's a total internal colonization and
you think they don't do this to people
who look like themselves but they do you
know yeah who's german and it's not a
small case because it's hundreds of
thousands of this woman it was around
800 000 or something like that 30 years
ago now they're dying and the rates of 5
000 a day or something like this and 300
000 are still alive so we are talking
about grandmothers of the people who is
voting i have there this alternative for
germany in this germany and uh
they are like they they have their kind
of produced nazis yeah
it's totally just
and the funny things that when we were
like trying to help them uh
like it was me david uh the yes man
group
in the beginning with us and the uh
public uh
defendant and they're all jewish
and they all they always this woman
they're like we don't tell them about
jewish because it's not true
didn't your grandfather wasn't your
grandfather with the soviet army
like when they were taking berlin not
berlin but he was very close to building
he wasn't brock he was like martian with
the american and the russian come in
yeah yeah
you know
yeah but the uh the yes man they are the
child children of the holocaust
survivors
yeah it's it's a very strange case so we
we wanted to put this case on in the
book about injustice because it's a kind
of strange uh
strange process that
was dragging for 30 years now it's a
kind of very unsuccessful process
process
process because even if they will win
most of them are too gold yeah their
care homes are already yeah there's a
few i mean they're very very organized
and
you know they're still have a whole
series with 30 organizations yeah 30
organizations throughout germany
so it's it's it's a bizarre case and
they you know in the only watch they did
they did a demonstration they did not
recall they like shoe and german
government so and they they can get
nothing out of that yeah there's this
incredible lack of something but you
know
you've gone ten minutes okay
yeah anyway so that's what we're doing